This is really, really cool.
So, Lighthouse is the last tab
we're gonna kinda cover here.
When I did this talk last time,
Lighthouse wasn't in the panel, and
was it's own separate website.
It's a open source initiative
that came out of Google.
It's really well maintained with all these
rulesets and tests for web performance.
And I used to have this advice where I
was like, if you're doing a local app,
you got to use Audit.
But if you have an app on production,
go check out lighthouse.
It's like the best.
And now Lighthouse is here in the tabs,
which I'm like,
just very giddy over because it's just so
good.
All the rules are open source and online
and a ton of people contribute to it.
And it has all these different categories,
which are somewhat self explanatory.
They're maybe a little complicated, but so
performance is going to be
initial page load performance,
very similar to what we've been doing
manually with the network stuff.
Progressive Web App is going to check,
does it service worker
does it work offline.
Does it have a manifest?
All these great things for progressive web
apps which we're not building right now,
best practices is gonna be just a lot
of normal stuff about the images and
compression and
all those different things.
Accessibility is hugely valuable,
I have an accessibility course on Frontend
Masters but making sure that interactive
elements can be done via the keyboard,
making sure that color
contrast works well for
people with different vision impairments.
All sort of things like that making
sure screen readers are going to have
an easy time reading your content,
to non sighted users.
And then SEO, just making sure that you're
doing kind of the basic things for Google
to be able to track your website well and
for other search engines to track as well.
So I think for now, let's just go through,
let's just generate a mega report.
And this is keeping in mind that we know
that we're not a progressive web app.
We know we don't have
any of those features.
So, you click what you want, and
then you click Generate Report and
it's gonna do a bunch of
stuff in the background.
It's going to refresh the page and
stuff like that.
And so you get this very,
very nice easy to parse,
0 through 100 score on all
the different categories.
So you can see it's pretty cool.
I found that we're not
a progressive web app and
instead of giving you a bad read score,
it's just kind of grayed it out.
We get 100 number Performance,
90 on Accessibility, 93 on Best Practices,
78 on SEO.
So let's just start looking through.
These are like, sometimes I think about
things that I'm like, you could probably
just make money just by offering
people who have business websites and
aren't super tech savvy, probably
just honestly like run Lighthouse,
print it out and go talk to them about it.
It's so valuable even though it's free,
it's just so cool to be able to see.
So on the Performance tab,
that's the onload performance.
We can see all these great
things like how long it took for
the first contentful paint, how long it
took before the site was interactive.
For those of us that work at big
companies, we probably have a few of
these metrics that are mandated, like time
to first byte or first contentful paint.
Those will be things that we need
to keep the app on a certain time.
So first contentful paint is like we
talked about on there when the page
renders the first time and
time to interactive.
I've seen this on some slower sites where
it's loading that is blocking the main
thread where you can't click on things,
you can't scroll,
you can't click on a button.
So that's time to interactive before.
The main thread is free enough
that you can do stuff again.
Largest contentful, paint, layout shift,
all these different metrics.
And what's really cool with these is if
you get one red or yellow, it'll flag you
with a page for each and every one of
them where you can click on the page and
go to this really nicely maintained dock
for like, well, why am I getting that?
What can I do?
What's the problem here?
I know I'm gushing over it,
but it's just so awesome.
Lighthouse is such, such a great resource.
Cool, so kinda scrolling down.
You can also see,
I know these are all mini.
Remember I said that if you have
the Dev tools not popped out,
the screenshots will be really tiny.
So here is just little tiny screenshots
of what's going on up there.
And then it has suggestions.
So here it can says the only suggestion
normally you get a lot is that you could
save 100 milliseconds or something like
that if you eliminated render blocking
resources, and specifically if I extend
that it's the custom font that I use.
So I have a custom font.
It's pretty small.
But if I got rid of it,
then I could speed things up a lot.
The other thing you could do is,
you can do that.
Have you ever loaded a site and
it loads with a system font and
then it changes into being a custom font.
You guys do that.
I mean, it's gonna be a lot faster or
not maybe a lot, but
it'll be somewhat faster but
at a worse user experience.
So kinda your choice.
And then here's all the things that,
these are not marked red.
So, if they were I could go and read into
those more, if I was messed something up.
And then here are the ones
that are passed audit.
So you can see these two.
These are all the things that would flag,
if you're on a production site, and
it had any of these issues.
Next one accessibility.
Same thing, it just gives you
immediately useful, very helpful stuff.
So it's like, this HTML element
doesn't have a Lang attribute.
And it has this whole important
thing about screen readers.
If you don't set a language
on the HTML element,
they will use the user's default language.
So if you are a Spanish speaking
user on a Spanish screen reader, and
I have an English website,
but I don't set the Lang,
it's going to try to read it in Spanish
because I haven't set the Lang.
So, immediately very, very useful
stuff that you honestly could just go,
just follow along and
kind of fix all these things.
Then again choose all
the passed audits that we got.
I will give a caveat here.
Accessibility testing like automated
testing has come such a long way.
And I know that sounds a little cliche,
but
it's especially true with accessibility,
like really nothing beats the real thing.
Nothing beats actually getting a user on
and trying to tab around and make sure,
because things might have tab index, but
they might be unintuitive or clunky.
And Chrome Dev Tools won't
be able to catch that.
So this is a really good starting point.
These are easy things to fix, but
accessibility is very subjective.
For making a good experience,
it's a little bit harder to lint and
better to have somebody on your team that
knows how to use a screen reader and
knows how to tab around and
make sure that it feels good.
That feels nice.
Another thing, best practices,
missing one where there's no doctype set.
So again, on the HTML, you might how you
usually do like doctype HTML, or whatever,
sort of a relic back to the old
days where we had, before HTML5,
we had all these specific doctypes and
these specific modes that browsers would.
But again,
you can go to the Learn More and
it'll just tell you to put doctype
HTML at the top of your page.
And then here are the audits I passed.
Coming to SEO,
I don't have a meta viewport tag.
And so this helps mobile
devices know how to scale so
they don't have to pinch to zoom.
Have you ever loaded a site on your mobile
device and it's like super mini, and
you're trying to zoom into it?
So this meta viewport can help with that.
And there's no meta description.
Again, not an SEO class, but these are
things that help the search engine know
more about the page so
that they can index it better.
Cool, and then PWA.
I failed a bunch of things,
but it's not a PWA.
That's okay.
So it said, hey, we went offline and
we expected to 200, we didn't get one.
It doesn't have any
service workers at all.
There's no web app manifest.
I mean, these are things we know
because it's not a progressive web app.
But if you do have one working on
mobile.twitter.com, and you want it in
the App Store and you want to, make sure
that you pass all these PWA tests as well.
Cool, and
then it's got a bunch of meta information,
just about what slow down it used, what
site it was, all these kinda great stuff.